Hey everyone and thanks for jumping back
into the cryptoverse.
Today, we're going to talk about
Ethereum.
Dubious speculation. If you guys like
the content, make sure you subscribe to
the channel, give the video a thumbs up,
and also check out the sale on Into the
Cryptoverse premium at
intothecryptoverse.com.
As a reminder, we are throwing the first
ITC conference in late November in
Miami. So, I would love to see you guys
there. Link will be in the description
below in case you want to attend.
Let's go ahead and jump in. So, it's
been a little while since we talked
about Ethereum. Now, currently it's
trading at just below $1,900.
And so, then the question becomes, you
know, what is Ethereum going to do for
the rest of the year, right? Like it's
it's July. We're a little bit more than
halfway through the midterm year. So,
what lies in store for the rest of the
year?
In order to try to figure this out,
we're going to be looking at the USD
valuation, we're going to be looking at
the Bitcoin valuation. Uh we're going to
be looking at a lot of things. So, let's
go ahead and and sort of dive in here
and I'll I'll tell you at least what I'm
thinking, okay?
Now, the first thing to note is that
altcoins in general don't always have to
bottom when Bitcoin bottoms. So, is it
possible that Ethereum could bottom
before Bitcoin?
Yeah, it's possible.
Why couldn't it? I mean,
it did last cycle, right? I mean, if I
guess that's all the proof you need is
it last cycle, Ethereum did bottom
before Bitcoin. So, it's not like even
if Bitcoin went to a new low, it's not
like Ethereum would necessarily have to.
I think that's kind of one point. You
can see how last cycle Bitcoin made a
lower low and Ethereum made a higher low
off of the summer bottom.
But, I want to clear I I to sort of
clearly show you
what the risk is. So that so that you
know what it is and and you're not going
in blind thinking that it has to play
out like it did last cycle. Hopefully it
does, but I just want to show you what
I'm thinking and then hopefully that
will allow you to kind of figure out
what you think makes the most amount of
sense and how you want to navigate this.
Right?
So, it goes like this.
In midterm years, July historically is a
good month for crypto.
It just is. Historically, that is the
case. If you look at monthly returns of
Bitcoin, in July of 2026, you can see
it's green. July 2022, it was 20% up.
July 2018, almost 40% up. 2014, it was
down but only slightly. So, on average,
July, even in midterm years, does pretty
well. You can see that the months
preceding July, like May and June, are
often red. They were red in 2026.
They were red in 2022 and they were red
in 2018. And you can see the months that
come after July are often red as well in
midterm years. You can see in 2022,
August and September were red. In 2018,
August and September were red.
We know that for Bitcoin.
So, the risk for Ethereum
is the market risk.
What if the gains that Bitcoin's getting
right now
are wiped out come August and September?
Like if if Bitcoin were to, you know,
rally back up but then they just to give
the gains right back, what does Ethereum
do? And what does Ethereum do if Bitcoin
goes even lower
later in the year to fully reset all the
on-chain indicators? How does it
perform?
Well,
here's the difficult part.
When we think about the midterm year, we
talk about windows of weakness and
windows of strength. Right? And I know
you're like, why you keep talking about
Bitcoin? Because to understand
Ethereum's price structure, you have to
start with Bitcoin. It It's very clear.
If Bitcoin goes lower, it's going to
drag ETH back down. We then just have to
figure out if it's a lower high or a
higher high. Now,
we've got more than one example for
Ethereum. It's not like 2022 was our
only example. We also have the example
of 2018, and structurally, there are a
lot of similarities between 2018 and
2026. There are.
Same president.
Bitcoin formed a low in February of
2018, just like it formed a low in in
February 2026. We then swept the low in
June of 2018, just like we swept the low
in like late June, early July of 2026.
So, it's And even the lower high was in
May of 2018, just like we had a lower
high in May of 2026. So, it's a very
similar setup. So, for Ethereum, we
can't just look at 2022. We also have to
say, well, what happened in 2018?
And here's where it gets tricky.
In 2018,
when you look at at Bitcoin, Bitcoin
rallied up in July, and then it gave the
gains back.
In 2022, Bitcoin rallied up in July,
and then it gave the gains back in
August or September.
Both cases, Bitcoin did the same thing.
Ethereum did something completely
different.
So, if you overlay Ethereum onto the
chart,
what you'll see is that Ethereum in 2018
was not able to hold support, and it
actually dropped to a new cycle low in
August, and again at the end of the
cycle.
Whereas in 2022, when Bitcoin dropped,
Ethereum printed a
higher low.
So,
it depends on which one you look at. Is
this 2022 or is it 2018?
I'll give you a clue.
It's not either of them
because it's 2026.
Right? I think it's 2026.
And it's probably going to be somewhat
different than either of those two
outcomes. Okay?
But,
the argument now, I think, in in terms
of this is you talk about, well, there's
a difference between being right and
making money.
Okay? Historically, buying Bitcoin,
starting to buy Bitcoin in July through
December of midterm years, historically,
has worked out really, really well. For
buying altcoins, it's kind of hit or
miss. Like, if you started buying
Ethereum in I mean, eventually, you were
rewarded, but if you'd started buying
Ethereum in July of 2018,
Ethereum was at
$500.
And then, it lost 80%
between then and the end of the year.
Right? So,
in 2022, though, if you bought it in
July, if you bought Ethereum in July,
you were basically buying the bottom.
But, you can see two very, very
different outcomes. My guess is it's
somewhere in between. Like, I don't
think Ethereum is going to drop
80-something percent from the current
levels by the end of the year. I don't
think that's going to happen. But, it's
possible you could get something a
little bit deeper than what we got in
2022. One of the reasons is because in
2022,
by this point, for Bitcoin, we had more
or less reset a lot of the on-chain
indicators, whereas we haven't done that
yet now. And back then, even though we
had already reset a lot of the on-chain
indicators by July,
they we Bitcoin still went lower in Q4,
even though a lot of the on-chain
indicators had already been reset.
When we think about social
participation, like interest in the
cryptoverse, if you look at social
interest, it is still really, really
low.
And in that way, it actually is a little
bit more similar to 2018. The social
risk right now is 0.25.
In July of 2018, the social risk was
also around 0.25.
In 2022,
in July, the social risk was actually
closer to 0.5. So, there was a lot more
participation
in in in Ethereum and in the cryptoverse
back in 2022 than in 2018. And you could
argue that the reason, not just
Ethereum, but the reason the altcoin
market got annihilated
in August late July going into August of
2018, despite the fact that Bitcoin held
support at $6,000, was because there was
just no one here to buy it anymore.
So, that's the the question here is if
there's no one really here to buy, and
if this does mimic 2018,
you know, are you just going to see
these altcoins give way
in August and September? Because we're
already in the window of strength right
now for altcoins, right? Like July is
the window of strength, but despite it
being the window of strength for alts,
they haven't done anything yet.
Right? Like they've barely moved. And
you can see that the bear market
resistance band is coming down hard on
these, just like it was in 2018.
So, for me, for Ethereum,
I have to think, all right, am I okay
taking on the risk of Bitcoin
even though I know we could go lower,
and I think the answer is more more
likely to be yes for a lot of people
because it's more it's sort of proven
itself as to like, you know, what could
it How low could it go? Whereas for
Ethereum, we have two drastically
different outcomes. We have a 40% drop
as measured from the July high
versus an 80% drop as measured from a
July high. A 40% drop, let's say if
Ethereum goes back up to say 2K or 2100
or something, a 40% drop would put you,
you know, basically sweeping the April
2025 low, which is what I've said I
think is going to happen.
Going slightly below that level.
An 80% drop would be disastrous, right?
Like that is not something that I I want
to happen, I think will happen, I hope
we don't have to face that.
So, I think it's going to be somewhere
in between, right? Like I I don't think
it's going to be 80%, but it might be a
little bit more than 2022 just because
social participation is so low right
now. But, I got to be clear, I don't I'm
not calling for that drop to happen
right now.
I think that the window of weakness
doesn't really come back until August.
Maybe like very, very late July.
And so,
that's where we are. Look at 2018,
Ethereum had a similar move, right? Like
it found a low just above a prior low,
consolidated there, had a move back up
in July, but then still sold off. So,
here's what I would say
in terms of like practicality.
I think the biggest window of weakness
for Ethereum will come in sort of the
August to October time frame.
And
what happens between now and then,
I I it doesn't really matter to me. Like
Ethereum could go back up,
it could go back down, whatever, it
could go a lot further down.
But, come late September, early October,
I will at least have more information on
what a theory I'm does during the
potential window of weakness for Bitcoin
that often shows up in August and
September.
That is how I think about it for a
theory I'm. If a theory I'm is still
trading at $1,800
by September October, I would have a lot
more confidence.
But we're not there right now, right?
Like we're still in the period of the
dog days of summer where no one cares
about crypto. Bitcoin struggling to hold
60k just like it struggled to hold 6k
back in 2018. And even though Bitcoin
did hold 6k until November, a theory I'm
broke down in August.
So, when I think of a theory I'm, I
think of a window of weakness will
likely come back in the August to
September time frame. And what a theory
I'm does then is very instrumental to
understand
you know, how the rest of the cycle
plays out. And so, I'll be looking at a
theory I'm in the August to September
time frame to see, all right,
how does it look? Is it able to kind of
do what it did in 2022 or is it more
like 2018?
My guess is it's going to be somewhere
in between those, would be my guess. And
again, when I'm saying like a 40% drop,
I'm not necessarily saying from the
current price, right? Like I mean, we
very well could continue to go up before
that happens. Now, I know what a lot of
you guys are thinking. You're like, what
about the ETH Bitcoin pair?
So, let me tell you something about the
ETH Bitcoin pair.
We've actually seen this happen a couple
times already and it's happening about
every
3 months. Mid-July,
mid-April,
mid-January. We're tagging
the bull market support band about every
3 months.
And every time we get a bit above it,
people are like, oh, we're above it.
Well, now and then we just come back
down.
I think
I don't know, but I think
that you might see it drop one last
time. And the reason is because social
interest is drying up, but also because
we're potentially looking
potentially looking
at a rate hike.
September-October time frame.
That's what we're looking at.
And what perfect way
to get
a lot of these higher-risk plays to
bottom out than on a scary rate hike
near the end of the midterm year.
Or just the threat of one, even if you
don't get one.
So,
I could see it playing out like that,
where you get a rate hike or you get the
scare of a rate hike a little bit later
this year in the September to October
time frame. It causes the higher-risk
altcoin market to sell off again against
Bitcoin. And then hopefully, at that
point, Ethereum's Bitcoin valuation can
print a macro higher low. Maybe it'll be
sweeping the June 2025 low.
Now, one last thing
on ETH-Bitcoin.
Last cycle, I was carefully watching
the 20-month moving average. And saying,
once we get past that,
Ethereum's back in business on a on on
monthly closes. And you can see it took
a while. Took a while to get above it,
but we eventually got above it. We did
not get above it until the election
year.
Look at where Ethereum's getting
rejected against Bitcoin. Right at that
20-month moving average.
So, watch that.
Watch that one. Because we've had plenty
of green months, right? Every three
three months or so, we get a green
month.
But that doesn't mean it can't continue
to go a little bit lower. And the
higher-risk time for it to go lower will
be in that August to September time
frame.
So, watch for that for Ethereum. Again,
in the short term,
you know, I wouldn't get overly bearish
on it cuz usually July is is a green
month. And if you look at at the
year-to-date ROI of Ethereum,
look at this. Look at 2026
compared to 2018.
At this point in 2018, the valuation of
Ethereum
is basically the same as it is now with
respect to the yearly open. The same
thing.
Compared to 2022, 2022 was a lot lower.
That's why I feel like it's not exactly
2022. It's also not exactly 2018 because
um
you know, mainly because we topped on
euphoria back then and this time we
topped on on apathy. So, but if you
combine them, if you combine
the last two midterm years,
you can see it actually looks really
similar, right? You come down, you rally
on up, you come down, you rally on up,
and then you come down again.
So, I'm watching this very closely. You
can overlay one standard deviation, but
we only got two data points, so it's not
going to really look that great. Yeah,
cuz it it goes to only one data point,
but if you look at it like this, you can
kind of see what I'm talking about. It
It looks pretty much like what it always
looks
in in midterm years. And I would be
looking for Ethereum to probably stall
out
before the bear market resistance band
or at it. Like it doesn't have to
get there, but like that's I think the
big the sort of the main area that we
need to get past.
I mean, if you wanted to argue it's
2019, it's possible you could get by it,
but my guess is you won't really durably
get past it until next year. Because
even in 2022, once the low was in, we
still just kept getting rejected by it,
and we didn't really in
we didn't really end the window of
weakness
until January of the pre-having year,
the pre-election year.
So, my guess is you'll still find
rejection by Ethereum
until we get closer to to next year. If
you guys like the content, make sure you
subscribe to the channel, give the video
a thumbs up. Again, check out the sale
on ITC Premium at
intothecryptoverse.com. We're going to
go ahead and end that sale
uh relatively soon. Um so, make sure you
guys check that out. Um just maybe a few
more days, but also more importantly,
check out the conference that we're
launching. I hope to see you guys there.
It'll be in late November, November 20th
through the 22nd in Miami, Florida. Hope
to see you guys there. Thank you guys
for tuning in. Subscribe. I'll see you
guys next time. Bye.